<!-- BEGIN_TF_DOCS -->
<!-- Code generated by terraform-docs. DO NOT EDIT. -->
# terraform-azurerm-avm-res-sqlvirtualmachine-sqlvirtualmachine

Terraform Azure Verified Resource Module to manage [Azure SQL Virtual Machine](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/virtual-machines/windows/sql-server-on-azure-vm-iaas-what-is-overview) (`Microsoft.SqlVirtualMachine/sqlVirtualMachines`).

Azure SQL Virtual Machine enables you to use full versions of SQL Server in the cloud hosted on Windows Server virtual machines. Registering your SQL Server VM with the SQL IaaS Agent Extension unlocks features such as automated patching, automated backup, and simplified license management.

## Features

This module supports the following capabilities:

- **SQL Server License Types**: Configure Azure Hybrid Benefit (AHUB), Pay-As-You-Go (PAYG), or Disaster Recovery (DR) licensing.
- **SQL Management Modes**: Full, LightWeight, or NoAgent management modes for different feature and overhead requirements.
- **SQL Server Editions**: Support for Developer, Express, Standard, Enterprise, and Web SKUs.
- **Managed Identities**: System-assigned and user-assigned managed identity support.
- **Resource Locks**: CanNotDelete or ReadOnly locks to protect the resource.
- **Role Assignments**: Azure RBAC role assignments directly on the SQL Virtual Machine resource.
- **AVM Telemetry**: Optional telemetry to help improve Azure Verified Modules.

## Prerequisites

- An existing Azure Virtual Machine with SQL Server installed (from Azure Marketplace SQL Server images).
- The VM must be running a supported Windows Server version.

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->
## Requirements

The following requirements are needed by this module:

- <a name="requirement_terraform"></a> [terraform](#requirement\_terraform) (~> 1.5)

- <a name="requirement_azapi"></a> [azapi](#requirement\_azapi) (~> 2.4)

- <a name="requirement_modtm"></a> [modtm](#requirement\_modtm) (~> 0.3)

- <a name="requirement_random"></a> [random](#requirement\_random) (~> 3.5)

## Resources

The following resources are used by this module:

- [azapi_resource.management_lock](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/azapi/latest/docs/resources/resource) (resource)
- [azapi_resource.role_assignment](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/azapi/latest/docs/resources/resource) (resource)
- [azapi_resource.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/azapi/latest/docs/resources/resource) (resource)
- [modtm_telemetry.telemetry](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/azure/modtm/latest/docs/resources/telemetry) (resource)
- [random_uuid.telemetry](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/random/latest/docs/resources/uuid) (resource)
- [azapi_client_config.current](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/azapi/latest/docs/data-sources/client_config) (data source)
- [azapi_client_config.telemetry](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/azapi/latest/docs/data-sources/client_config) (data source)
- [modtm_module_source.telemetry](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/azure/modtm/latest/docs/data-sources/module_source) (data source)

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->
## Required Inputs

The following input variables are required:

### <a name="input_location"></a> [location](#input\_location)

Description: Azure region where the resource should be deployed.

Type: `string`

### <a name="input_name"></a> [name](#input\_name)

Description: The name of the SQL Virtual Machine.

Type: `string`

### <a name="input_resource_group_name"></a> [resource\_group\_name](#input\_resource\_group\_name)

Description: The resource group where the resources will be deployed.

Type: `string`

### <a name="input_virtual_machine_resource_id"></a> [virtual\_machine\_resource\_id](#input\_virtual\_machine\_resource\_id)

Description: The resource ID of the Azure Virtual Machine that this SQL Virtual Machine will be associated with.

Type: `string`

## Optional Inputs

The following input variables are optional (have default values):

### <a name="input_assessment_settings"></a> [assessment\_settings](#input\_assessment\_settings)

Description: SQL best practices assessment settings for the SQL Virtual Machine.

- `enable` - (Optional) Enable or disable SQL best practices Assessment feature on SQL virtual machine.
- `run_immediately` - (Optional) Run SQL best practices Assessment immediately on SQL virtual machine.
- `schedule` - (Optional) Schedule for the assessment:
  - `day_of_week` - Day of the week to run assessment. Possible values: 'Monday', 'Tuesday', 'Wednesday', 'Thursday', 'Friday', 'Saturday', 'Sunday'.
  - `enable` - Enable or disable assessment schedule on SQL virtual machine.
  - `monthly_occurrence` - Occurrence of the DayOfWeek day within a month to schedule assessment. Takes values: 1,2,3,4 and -1. Use -1 for last DayOfWeek day of the month.
  - `start_time` - Time of the day in HH:mm format. Eg. 17:30.
  - `weekly_interval` - Number of weeks to schedule between 2 assessment runs. Takes value from 1-6.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    enable          = optional(bool)
    run_immediately = optional(bool)
    schedule = optional(object({
      day_of_week        = optional(string)
      enable             = optional(bool)
      monthly_occurrence = optional(number)
      start_time         = optional(string)
      weekly_interval    = optional(number)
    }))
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_auto_backup_settings"></a> [auto\_backup\_settings](#input\_auto\_backup\_settings)

Description: Automated backup settings for the SQL Virtual Machine.

- `enable` - (Required) Enable or disable autobackup on SQL virtual machine.
- `backup_schedule_type` - (Optional) Backup schedule type. Possible values: 'Manual', 'Automated'.
- `backup_system_dbs` - (Optional) Include or exclude system databases from auto backup.
- `days_of_week` - (Optional) Days of the week for the backups when full\_backup\_frequency is set to Weekly.
- `enable_encryption` - (Optional) Enable or disable encryption for backup on SQL virtual machine.
- `full_backup_frequency` - (Optional) Frequency of full backups. Possible values: 'Daily', 'Weekly'.
- `full_backup_start_time` - (Optional) Start time of a given day during which full backups can take place. 0-23 hours.
- `full_backup_window_hours` - (Optional) Duration of the time window of a given day during which full backups can take place. 1-23 hours.
- `log_backup_frequency` - (Optional) Frequency of log backups. 5-60 minutes.
- `password` - (Optional) Password for encryption on backup. This is a write-only property.
- `retention_period` - (Optional) Retention period of backup: 1-90 days.
- `storage_access_key` - (Optional) Storage account key where backup will be taken to. This is a write-only property.
- `storage_account_url` - (Optional) Storage account url where backup will be taken to.
- `storage_container_name` - (Optional) Storage container name where backup will be taken to.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    enable                   = bool
    backup_schedule_type     = optional(string)
    backup_system_dbs        = optional(bool)
    days_of_week             = optional(list(string))
    enable_encryption        = optional(bool)
    full_backup_frequency    = optional(string)
    full_backup_start_time   = optional(number)
    full_backup_window_hours = optional(number)
    log_backup_frequency     = optional(number)
    password                 = optional(string)
    retention_period         = optional(number)
    storage_access_key       = optional(string)
    storage_account_url      = optional(string)
    storage_container_name   = optional(string)
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_auto_patching_settings"></a> [auto\_patching\_settings](#input\_auto\_patching\_settings)

Description: Automated patching settings for the SQL Virtual Machine.

- `enable` - (Required) Enable or disable autopatching on SQL virtual machine.
- `day_of_week` - (Optional) Day of week to apply the patch on. Possible values: 'Everyday', 'Monday', 'Tuesday', 'Wednesday', 'Thursday', 'Friday', 'Saturday', 'Sunday'.
- `maintenance_window_duration` - (Optional) Duration of patching in minutes.
- `maintenance_window_starting_hour` - (Optional) Hour of the day when patching is initiated. Local VM time. 0-23.
- `additional_vm_patch` - (Optional) Additional Patch to be enabled on the SQL Virtual Machine. Possible values: 'NotSet', 'MicrosoftUpdate'.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    enable                           = bool
    day_of_week                      = optional(string)
    maintenance_window_duration      = optional(number)
    maintenance_window_starting_hour = optional(number)
    additional_vm_patch              = optional(string)
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_automatic_upgrade_enabled"></a> [automatic\_upgrade\_enabled](#input\_automatic\_upgrade\_enabled)

Description: Enable automatic upgrade of SQL IaaS extension Agent.

Type: `bool`

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_diagnostic_settings"></a> [diagnostic\_settings](#input\_diagnostic\_settings)

Description: A map of diagnostic settings to create on the Key Vault. The map key is deliberately arbitrary to avoid issues where map keys maybe unknown at plan time.

- `name` - (Optional) The name of the diagnostic setting. One will be generated if not set, however this will not be unique if you want to create multiple diagnostic setting resources.
- `log_categories` - (Optional) A set of log categories to send to the log analytics workspace. Defaults to `[]`.
- `log_groups` - (Optional) A set of log groups to send to the log analytics workspace. Defaults to `["allLogs"]`.
- `metric_categories` - (Optional) A set of metric categories to send to the log analytics workspace. Defaults to `["AllMetrics"]`.
- `log_analytics_destination_type` - (Optional) The destination type for the diagnostic setting. Possible values are `Dedicated` and `AzureDiagnostics`. Defaults to `Dedicated`.
- `workspace_resource_id` - (Optional) The resource ID of the log analytics workspace to send logs and metrics to.
- `storage_account_resource_id` - (Optional) The resource ID of the storage account to send logs and metrics to.
- `event_hub_authorization_rule_resource_id` - (Optional) The resource ID of the event hub authorization rule to send logs and metrics to.
- `event_hub_name` - (Optional) The name of the event hub. If none is specified, the default event hub will be selected.
- `marketplace_partner_resource_id` - (Optional) The full ARM resource ID of the Marketplace resource to which you would like to send Diagnostic LogsLogs.

Type:

```hcl
map(object({
    name                                     = optional(string, null)
    log_categories                           = optional(set(string), [])
    log_groups                               = optional(set(string), ["allLogs"])
    metric_categories                        = optional(set(string), ["AllMetrics"])
    log_analytics_destination_type           = optional(string, "Dedicated")
    workspace_resource_id                    = optional(string, null)
    storage_account_resource_id              = optional(string, null)
    event_hub_authorization_rule_resource_id = optional(string, null)
    event_hub_name                           = optional(string, null)
    marketplace_partner_resource_id          = optional(string, null)
  }))
```

Default: `{}`

### <a name="input_enable_telemetry"></a> [enable\_telemetry](#input\_enable\_telemetry)

Description: This variable controls whether or not telemetry is enabled for the module.  
For more information see <https://aka.ms/avm/telemetryinfo>.  
If it is set to false, then no telemetry will be collected.

Type: `bool`

Default: `true`

### <a name="input_key_vault_credential_settings"></a> [key\_vault\_credential\_settings](#input\_key\_vault\_credential\_settings)

Description: Azure Key Vault integration settings for the SQL Virtual Machine. This allows SQL Server to connect to Azure Key Vault.

- `enable` - (Required) Enable or disable Key Vault credential setting.
- `azure_key_vault_url` - (Optional) Azure Key Vault URL (e.g., https://myvault.vault.azure.net/).
- `credential_name` - (Optional) Credential name to store in SQL Server.
- `service_principal_name` - (Optional) Service principal name (Application/Client ID) to access Key Vault.
- `service_principal_secret` - (Optional) Service principal secret to access Key Vault. This is a write-only property.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    enable                   = bool
    azure_key_vault_url      = optional(string)
    credential_name          = optional(string)
    service_principal_name   = optional(string)
    service_principal_secret = optional(string)
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_least_privilege_mode"></a> [least\_privilege\_mode](#input\_least\_privilege\_mode)

Description: SQL IaaS Agent least privilege mode. Possible values are 'Enabled' and 'NotSet'.

Type: `string`

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_lock"></a> [lock](#input\_lock)

Description: Controls the Resource Lock configuration for this resource. The following properties can be specified:

- `kind` - (Required) The type of lock. Possible values are `\"CanNotDelete\"` and `\"ReadOnly\"`.
- `name` - (Optional) The name of the lock. If not specified, a name will be generated based on the `kind` value. Changing this forces the creation of a new resource.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    kind = string
    name = optional(string, null)
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_managed_identities"></a> [managed\_identities](#input\_managed\_identities)

Description: Controls the Managed Identity configuration on this resource. The following properties can be specified:

- `system_assigned` - (Optional) Specifies if the System Assigned Managed Identity should be enabled.
- `user_assigned_resource_ids` - (Optional) Specifies a list of User Assigned Managed Identity resource IDs to be assigned to this resource.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    system_assigned            = optional(bool, false)
    user_assigned_resource_ids = optional(set(string), [])
  })
```

Default: `{}`

### <a name="input_role_assignments"></a> [role\_assignments](#input\_role\_assignments)

Description: A map of role assignments to create on this resource. The map key is deliberately arbitrary to avoid issues where map keys maybe unknown at plan time.

- `role_definition_id_or_name` - The ID or name of the role definition to assign to the principal.
- `principal_id` - The ID of the principal to assign the role to.
- `description` - The description of the role assignment.
- `skip_service_principal_aad_check` - If set to true, skips the Azure Active Directory check for the service principal in the tenant. Defaults to false.
- `condition` - The condition which will be used to scope the role assignment.
- `condition_version` - The version of the condition syntax. Valid values are '2.0'.
- `principal_type` - (Optional) The type of the `principal_id`. Possible values are `User`, `Group` and `ServicePrincipal`.

> Note: only set `skip_service_principal_aad_check` to true if you are assigning a role to a service principal.

Type:

```hcl
map(object({
    role_definition_id_or_name             = string
    principal_id                           = string
    description                            = optional(string, null)
    skip_service_principal_aad_check       = optional(bool, false)
    condition                              = optional(string, null)
    condition_version                      = optional(string, null)
    delegated_managed_identity_resource_id = optional(string, null)
    principal_type                         = optional(string, null)
  }))
```

Default: `{}`

### <a name="input_server_configurations_management_settings"></a> [server\_configurations\_management\_settings](#input\_server\_configurations\_management\_settings)

Description: Server configurations management settings for the SQL Virtual Machine.

- `additional_features_server_configurations` - Additional features server configurations:
  - `is_r_services_enabled` - Enable or disable R services (SQL 2016 onwards).
- `azure_ad_authentication_settings` - Azure AD/Entra authentication settings:
  - `client_id` - The client Id of the Managed Identity to query Microsoft Graph API. Empty string for system assigned.
- `sql_connectivity_update_settings` - SQL connectivity update settings:
  - `connectivity_type` - SQL Server connectivity option. Possible values: 'LOCAL', 'PRIVATE', 'PUBLIC'.
  - `port` - SQL Server port.
  - `sql_auth_update_password` - SQL Server sysadmin login password. Write-only.
  - `sql_auth_update_user_name` - SQL Server sysadmin login to create. Write-only.
- `sql_instance_settings` - SQL instance settings:
  - `collation` - SQL Server Collation.
  - `is_ifi_enabled` - SQL Server IFI (Instant File Initialization).
  - `is_lpim_enabled` - SQL Server LPIM (Lock Pages in Memory).
  - `is_optimize_for_ad_hoc_workloads_enabled` - SQL Server Optimize for Adhoc workloads.
  - `max_dop` - SQL Server MAXDOP.
  - `max_server_memory_mb` - SQL Server maximum memory.
  - `min_server_memory_mb` - SQL Server minimum memory.
- `sql_storage_update_settings` - SQL storage update settings:
  - `disk_configuration_type` - Disk configuration to apply. Possible values: 'NEW', 'EXTEND', 'ADD'.
  - `disk_count` - Virtual machine disk count.
  - `starting_device_id` - Device id of the first disk to be updated.
- `sql_workload_type_update_settings` - SQL workload type update settings:
  - `sql_workload_type` - SQL Server workload type. Possible values: 'GENERAL', 'OLTP', 'DW'.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    additional_features_server_configurations = optional(object({
      is_r_services_enabled = optional(bool)
    }))
    azure_ad_authentication_settings = optional(object({
      client_id = optional(string)
    }))
    sql_connectivity_update_settings = optional(object({
      connectivity_type         = optional(string)
      port                      = optional(number)
      sql_auth_update_password  = optional(string)
      sql_auth_update_user_name = optional(string)
    }))
    sql_instance_settings = optional(object({
      collation                                = optional(string)
      is_ifi_enabled                           = optional(bool)
      is_lpim_enabled                          = optional(bool)
      is_optimize_for_ad_hoc_workloads_enabled = optional(bool)
      max_dop                                  = optional(number)
      max_server_memory_mb                     = optional(number)
      min_server_memory_mb                     = optional(number)
    }))
    sql_storage_update_settings = optional(object({
      disk_configuration_type = optional(string)
      disk_count              = optional(number)
      starting_device_id      = optional(number)
    }))
    sql_workload_type_update_settings = optional(object({
      sql_workload_type = optional(string)
    }))
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_sql_image_offer"></a> [sql\_image\_offer](#input\_sql\_image\_offer)

Description: The SQL Server image offer. Possible values include 'SQL2019-WS2019', 'SQL2017-WS2019', 'SQL2016SP2-WS2019', etc.

Type: `string`

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_sql_image_sku"></a> [sql\_image\_sku](#input\_sql\_image\_sku)

Description: The SQL Server image SKU. Possible values include 'Developer', 'Express', 'Standard', 'Enterprise', 'Web'.

Type: `string`

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_sql_management"></a> [sql\_management](#input\_sql\_management)

Description: The SQL Server management mode. Possible values are 'Full', 'LightWeight', and 'NoAgent'.

Type: `string`

Default: `"Full"`

### <a name="input_sql_server_license_type"></a> [sql\_server\_license\_type](#input\_sql\_server\_license\_type)

Description: The SQL Server license type. Possible values are 'AHUB' (Azure Hybrid Benefit), 'PAYG' (Pay-As-You-Go), and 'DR' (Disaster Recovery).

Type: `string`

Default: `"PAYG"`

### <a name="input_sql_virtual_machine_group_resource_id"></a> [sql\_virtual\_machine\_group\_resource\_id](#input\_sql\_virtual\_machine\_group\_resource\_id)

Description: ARM resource id of the SQL virtual machine group this SQL virtual machine is or will be part of. Used for Always On Availability Groups.

Type: `string`

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_storage_configuration_settings"></a> [storage\_configuration\_settings](#input\_storage\_configuration\_settings)

Description: Storage configuration settings for the SQL Virtual Machine.

- `disk_configuration_type` - (Optional) Disk configuration type. Possible values: 'NEW', 'EXTEND', 'ADD'.
- `storage_workload_type` - (Optional) Storage workload type. Possible values: 'GENERAL', 'OLTP', 'DW'.
- `sql_system_db_on_data_disk` - (Optional) SQL Server SystemDb Storage on DataPool if true.
- `enable_storage_config_blade` - (Optional) Enable SQL IaaS Agent storage configuration blade in Azure Portal. Write-only.
- `sql_data_settings` - (Optional) SQL Server data settings:
  - `default_file_path` - SQL Server default data file path.
  - `luns` - Logical Unit Numbers for the disks.
  - `use_storage_pool` - Use storage pool to build a drive if true.
- `sql_log_settings` - (Optional) SQL Server log settings:
  - `default_file_path` - SQL Server default log file path.
  - `luns` - Logical Unit Numbers for the disks.
  - `use_storage_pool` - Use storage pool to build a drive if true.
- `sql_temp_db_settings` - (Optional) SQL Server TempDB settings:
  - `data_file_count` - SQL Server tempdb data file count.
  - `data_file_size` - SQL Server tempdb data file size in MB.
  - `data_growth` - SQL Server tempdb data file autoGrowth size in MB.
  - `default_file_path` - SQL Server default tempdb file path.
  - `log_file_size` - SQL Server tempdb log file size in MB.
  - `log_growth` - SQL Server tempdb log file autoGrowth size in MB.
  - `luns` - Logical Unit Numbers for the disks.
  - `persist_folder` - SQL Server tempdb persist folder choice.
  - `persist_folder_path` - SQL Server tempdb persist folder location.
  - `use_storage_pool` - Use storage pool to build a drive if true.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    disk_configuration_type     = optional(string)
    storage_workload_type       = optional(string)
    sql_system_db_on_data_disk  = optional(bool)
    enable_storage_config_blade = optional(bool)
    sql_data_settings = optional(object({
      default_file_path = optional(string)
      luns              = optional(list(number))
      use_storage_pool  = optional(bool)
    }))
    sql_log_settings = optional(object({
      default_file_path = optional(string)
      luns              = optional(list(number))
      use_storage_pool  = optional(bool)
    }))
    sql_temp_db_settings = optional(object({
      data_file_count     = optional(number)
      data_file_size      = optional(number)
      data_growth         = optional(number)
      default_file_path   = optional(string)
      log_file_size       = optional(number)
      log_growth          = optional(number)
      luns                = optional(list(number))
      persist_folder      = optional(bool)
      persist_folder_path = optional(string)
      use_storage_pool    = optional(bool)
    }))
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_tags"></a> [tags](#input\_tags)

Description: (Optional) Tags of the resource.

Type: `map(string)`

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_virtual_machine_identity_settings"></a> [virtual\_machine\_identity\_settings](#input\_virtual\_machine\_identity\_settings)

Description: Identity settings for the virtual machine. Used to configure managed identity for SQL VM.

- `type` - (Optional) Identity type of the virtual machine. Possible values: 'None', 'SystemAssigned', 'UserAssigned'.
- `resource_id` - (Optional) ARM Resource Id of the identity. Only required when UserAssigned identity is selected.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    type        = optional(string)
    resource_id = optional(string)
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_wsfc_domain_credentials"></a> [wsfc\_domain\_credentials](#input\_wsfc\_domain\_credentials)

Description: Windows Server Failover Cluster domain credentials. Used for Always On Availability Groups.

- `cluster_bootstrap_account_password` - (Optional) Cluster bootstrap account password.
- `cluster_operator_account_password` - (Optional) Cluster operator account password.
- `sql_service_account_password` - (Optional) SQL service account password.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    cluster_bootstrap_account_password = optional(string)
    cluster_operator_account_password  = optional(string)
    sql_service_account_password       = optional(string)
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_wsfc_static_ip"></a> [wsfc\_static\_ip](#input\_wsfc\_static\_ip)

Description: Domain credentials for setting up Windows Server Failover Cluster for SQL availability group.

Type: `string`

Default: `null`

## Outputs

The following outputs are exported:

### <a name="output_name"></a> [name](#output\_name)

Description: The name of the SQL Virtual Machine.

### <a name="output_resource_id"></a> [resource\_id](#output\_resource\_id)

Description: The resource ID of the SQL Virtual Machine.

## Modules

No modules.

<!-- markdownlint-disable-next-line MD041 -->
## Data Collection

The software may collect information about you and your use of the software and send it to Microsoft. Microsoft may use this information to provide services and improve our products and services. You may turn off the telemetry as described in the repository. There are also some features in the software that may enable you and Microsoft to collect data from users of your applications. If you use these features, you must comply with applicable law, including providing appropriate notices to users of your applications together with a copy of Microsoft’s privacy statement. Our privacy statement is located at <https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=824704>. You can learn more about data collection and use in the help documentation and our privacy statement. Your use of the software operates as your consent to these practices.
<!-- END_TF_DOCS -->